README.md, before:

![CoverImage](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/Barriers-DALL-E.png)

# CUDA Barrier Option Pricing & ML Model Training

This a demo of how Barrier Options can be priced using Monte Carlo Simulations running on a cluster of NVidia GPUs.  The option pricing results are used to train a machine learning models to predict the price of the Barrier Options. The idea being that a trained ML model could be used to price options more quickly than running a Monte Carlo simulation.  Tests show a XGBoost Gradient Boosted Decision Tree model can predict more than 400K barrier option prices per second without given much though to optimization.  Later test investigate using deep learning models using the PyTorch framework.

The demo constists of two parts:

## 1. CUDA Monte Carlo Simulation for pricing Barrier Options 	 
   
   The following barrier option types are supported:

	- Up-and-Out, Down-and-Out, Up-and-In & Down-and-In

	- European & American Exercise (American options use the Longstaff-Schwartz algorithm)

	- Call & Put Options

	The main() function in CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer.cu is used to drive batch pricing of random portfolios of Barrier Options.


   The option parameters and pricing results are written to a CSV file. Sample 100K and 1M output files are included in the repo.  A 10M barrier options file was generated and used to train the final versions of the ML models.

   ![Create Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/CreateBarriers.png)

## 2. Python Jupyter Notebooks 

### 2.1.  barrier_quick_ml_model_eval.ipynb
Demonstrates how to train a machine learning models to predict the price of Barrier Options. For this example Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest and XGBoost GBDT models were initiially evaluated. The XGBoost model was selected for further training and testing as the initial results seemed the most promising. 

   ![Model Eval](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/QuickModelEvals.png)

### 2.2.  barrier_xgboost.ipynb

XGBoost Gradient Boosted Decision Tree Models were trained on 10 million barrier options. Model accuracy statistics are calculated, Mathpoltlib and Ploty charts are then used to visualize the model performance.
 
 ![European Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/EuropeanBarriers.png)

 ![American Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/AmericanBarriers.png)

 ### 2.3.  barrier_dl_pytorch.ipynb

 First attempt at using PyTorch to train a Deep Learning model to predict the price of Barrier Options. 

 ![PyTorch Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/PyTorchBarriers.png)

 ### 2.4.  barrier_dl_pytorch_enhanced.ipynb

  Updated model architecture and multi-gpu training.
 
  ![PyTorch Barriers Enhanced](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/PyTorchBarriersEnhanced.png)

 ## 3. Further Work

 #### 3.1. Option Paramters
 The random option parameters could be chosen more wisely to better represent real world options.

 #### 3.2. Results Analysis
 Further analysis of ML model prediction results.  E.g. Outlier, why are American options predicted better than European options?  There is surely alot that can be done to improve the model accuracy.

 #### 3.3. Hyperparameter tuning
 E.g. Using a grid of heuristic driven search of the XGBoost model hyperparameters to improve accuracy.

 ### 3.4. Alternate Models
 More advanced ML models and ensembles could be evaluated.

 ### 3.5. Code refinement and optimization
 The code was quickly hacked together as a proof of concept and pretty much all of it could be improved. E.g. The CUDA code could be optimized to run faster, the Python code could be refactored to be more readable and efficient.

 ### 3.6. Sources of errors
 BarrierType, ExerciseType, OptionType are encoded as integers.  This could be a source of errors.  A better approach would be to use a one-hot encoding, however the XGBoost model seems to handle this well.  One-hot encoding is used in the PyTorch models.

Commit message:

Add comments about feature engineeering.

README.md, after:

![CoverImage](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/Barriers-DALL-E.png)

# CUDA Barrier Option Pricing & ML Model Training

This a demo of how Barrier Options can be priced using Monte Carlo Simulations running on a cluster of NVidia GPUs.  The option pricing results are used to train a machine learning models to predict the price of the Barrier Options. The idea being that a trained ML model could be used to price options more quickly than running a Monte Carlo simulation.  Tests show a XGBoost Gradient Boosted Decision Tree model can predict more than 400K barrier option prices per second without given much though to optimization.  Later tests investigate using deep learning models using the PyTorch framework.

The demo constists of two parts:

## 1. CUDA Monte Carlo Simulation for pricing Barrier Options 	 
   
   The following barrier option types are supported:

	- Up-and-Out, Down-and-Out, Up-and-In & Down-and-In

	- European & American Exercise (American options use the Longstaff-Schwartz algorithm)

	- Call & Put Options

	The main() function in CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer.cu is used to drive batch pricing of random portfolios of Barrier Options.


   The option parameters and pricing results are written to a CSV file. Sample 100K and 1M output files are included in the repo.  A 10M barrier options file was generated and used to train the final versions of the ML models.

   ![Create Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/CreateBarriers.png)

## 2. Python Jupyter Notebooks 

### 2.1.  barrier_quick_ml_model_eval.ipynb
Demonstrates how to train a machine learning models to predict the price of Barrier Options. For this example Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest and XGBoost GBDT models were initiially evaluated. The XGBoost model was selected for further training and testing as the initial results seemed the most promising. 

   ![Model Eval](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/QuickModelEvals.png)

### 2.2.  barrier_xgboost.ipynb

XGBoost Gradient Boosted Decision Tree Models were trained on 10 million barrier options. Model accuracy statistics are calculated, Mathpoltlib and Ploty charts are then used to visualize the model performance.
 
 ![European Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/EuropeanBarriers.png)

 ![American Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/AmericanBarriers.png)

 ### 2.3.  barrier_dl_pytorch.ipynb

 First attempt at using PyTorch to train a Deep Learning model to predict the price of Barrier Options. 

 ![PyTorch Barriers](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/PyTorchBarriers.png)

 ### 2.4.  barrier_dl_pytorch_enhanced.ipynb

  Updated model architecture and multi-gpu training.
 
  ![PyTorch Barriers Enhanced](https://github.com/brendanbignell/CUDA_MonteCarloOptionPricer/blob/master/images/PyTorchBarriersEnhanced.png)

 ## 3. Further Work

 #### 3.1. Option Paramters
 The random option parameters could be chosen more wisely to better represent real world options.

 #### 3.2. Results Analysis
 Further analysis of ML model prediction results.  E.g. Outlier, why are American options predicted better than European options?  There is surely alot that can be done to improve the model accuracy.

 #### 3.3. Hyperparameter tuning
 E.g. Using a grid of heuristic driven search of the XGBoost model hyperparameters to improve accuracy.

 ### 3.4. Alternate Models
 More advanced ML models and ensembles could be evaluated.

 ### 3.5. Code refinement and optimization
 The code was quickly hacked together as a proof of concept and pretty much all of it could be improved. E.g. The CUDA code could be optimized to run faster, the Python code could be refactored to be more readable and efficient.

 ### 3.6. Sources of errors
 BarrierType, ExerciseType, OptionType are encoded as integers.  This could be a source of errors.  A better approach would be to use a one-hot encoding, however the XGBoost model seems to handle this well.  One-hot encoding is used in the PyTorch models.

 ### 3.7. Feature Engineering
 The current model uses the option parameters as input features.  Other features could be engineered from the option parameters to improve model accuracy.  E.g. moneyness.

Rather than only using the average of barrier option pricing paths to calculate the price we could also capture a bunch of statistics such as the stdev of the price paths, quantiles etc. and use these as additional model features.
